[core] Support magic links in `SignInPage` (#4085)
mui/toolpad: docs/data/toolpad/core/components/sign-in-page/sign-in-page.md

- Twitch
- Discord
- Keycloak

Find details on how to set up each provider in the [Auth.js documentation](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/authentication/oauth).
:::

## Magic Link

> The `SignIn` page component supports magic links. To enable this, you will have to set up a provider such as Auth.js NodeMailer. See more details in the Auth.js docs on [database setup for email](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/authentication/email) and [Nodemailer configuration](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/nodemailer/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `SignIn` page component supports magic links. To enable this, you have to set up a provider such as Auth.js NodeMailer. See more details in the Auth.js docs on [database setup for email](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/authentication/email) and [Nodemailer configuration](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/nodemailer/).
```

- Twitch
- Discord
- Keycloak

Find details on how to set up each provider in the [Auth.js documentation](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/authentication/oauth).
:::

## Magic Link

:::warning

> To use magic links, you must configure a database and pass in the required environment variables to send emails. See more details in the Auth.js docs on [database setup for email](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/authentication/email) and [Nodemailer configuration](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/nodemailer/).

Reviewer: This page still gives me the impression that Toolpad core is about providing a full integration end-to-end, while in reality it's just about providing UI. I feel like it would make more sense to come from the angle that this component aims to provide UI for the auth.js Nodemailer provider.

Author: I can reword the warning and the introduction text of this section like the following:

:::warning
To use magic links, apart from configuring an authentication provider like Auth.js, you must also configure a database and pass in the required environment variables to send emails. See more details in the Auth.js docs on [database setup for email](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/authentication/email) and [Nodemailer configuration](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/nodemailer/).
:::

You can use the `SignInPage` component to quickly setup a sign-in page for the `nodemailer` provider offered by Auth.js which sends one-time verification links to the user's email address.

Reviewer: I'd expect something along the lines of

The Signin page component supports magic links. In order to enable this you'll have to set up a provider such as Auth.js NodeMailer. Please note that such provider requires persistence.

- Twitch
- Discord
- Keycloak

Find details on how to set up each provider in the [Auth.js documentation](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/authentication/oauth).
:::

> ## Magic Link

Reviewer 2: Should there be a default success alert that would already show in this demo?

Author: We have a separate demo on the Alerts just below this one, so I think this one is okay? If you think strongly that we should merge them, I can do that

You can use the `SignInPage` component to quickly set up authentication via one-time verification links. It uses Nodemailer under the hood to send the verification link to the user's email address. See more details in the [Auth.js docs](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/providers/nodemailer/) on configuration and customization.

To render a magic link form, pass in a provider with `nodemailer` as the `id` property.

{{"demo": "MagicLinkSignInPage.js", "iframe": true, "height": 500}}

### Alerts

The `SignInPage` component can display a success alert if the email is sent successfully. You can enable this by passing a `success` property in the
response object of the `signIn` prop.

{{"demo": "MagicLinkAlertSignInPage.js", "iframe": true, "height": 500}}

> To get the magic link working, you need to add the following code to your custom sign-in page:

Reviewer 2: I guess they don't really "need" to but it's a way that users can do it, right? So maybe we can say they "can" add that code instead, as this is an example of how they can do it with Auth.js?

```tsx title="app/auth/signin/page.tsx"
import * as React from 'react';
import { SignInPage } from '@toolpad/core/SignInPage';
import { AuthError } from 'next-auth';
import type { AuthProvider } from '@toolpad/core';
import { signIn, providerMap } from '../../../auth';

export default function SignIn() {
  return (
    <React.Fragment>
      <SignInPage providers={providerMap} signIn={
        async (provider: AuthProvider, formData: FormData, callbackUrl?: string) {
          try {
            return await signInAction(provider.id, {
              ...(formData && {
                email: formData.get('email'),
                password: formData.get('password'),
              }),
              redirectTo: callbackUrl ?? '/',
            });
        } catch (error) {

>           if (error instanceof Error && error.message === 'NEXT_REDIRECT') {

Reviewer 2: Not super clean that this is how "success" works (by catching an error) but if that's just how Auth.js does it I guess there's nothing we can do?
Ideally this code would be easier to follow.

Author: This is how Next.js + Auth.js server compoents redirects work - throwing a `NEXT_REDIRECT` which we must catch, I'm basing this on https://github.com/vercel/next.js/issues/49298#issuecomment-1542055642

            if (provider.id === 'nodemailer' &&
            (error as any).digest?.includes('verify-request')) {
            return {

>               success: 'Check your email for a verification link.',

Reviewer 2: Would a more specific name like `successAlert` or `successMessage` be better?

Reviewer 2: Got it, just a thought, I think `error` shouldn't be renamed so we can keep `success` if it's more consistent with that.

## 🚧 Other authentication Flows

> The `SignInPage` will be accompanied by other components to allow users to sign up, and reset passwords. This is in progress.

Reviewer: Address vale comment

```suggestion
Besides the `SignInPage` , the team is planning work on several other components that enable new workflows such as sign up and password reset.
```

Perhaps we need links to issues?
